A Distributed System is acollection of independent computers that appear to its users
as a single coherent system.
Scalability -> 
    is the property of a system to handle a growing amount of work by adding resources
    to the system. 
    Usually measured in RPS, TPS or QPS.
    (Requests per second, Trasaction Per Second, Queries Per Second)

Availability -> 
    of a distributed system is measured as time for which system is available to handle 
    requests in a given time period.
    Usually measured in ‘nines’.

See Table of 9's png

VERTICAL SCALING
    Advantages:
    • No design changes required.
    • Minimal code changes required.
    Disadvantages:
    •  Vertical Scaling has a limit.
    •  Difficult to scale down.
    •  Increase in cost is not proportional to load.

Horizontal Scaling
 (or scaling out) means adding more nodes to application to handle more load
    Advantages:
    •  Dynamic scaling is possible by adding new machines.
    •  Scaling down is easy when load decreases.
    •  No limit on resources.
    •  Better availability because of redundancy.
    Disadvantages:
    •  Design needs to support horizontal scaling.
    •  Code needs changes to support horizontal scaling

DISTRIBUTED SYSTEM TECHNIQUES
    1.Data Partitioning
    2.Data Replication

    Data partitioning is the process in which the data is logically grouped and
    stored at multiple locations (different computers or servers).

    Partitioning strategies
    1.Range Partitioning: Select a partition key and partition the data in ranges 
    of the partition key.Example: User data with zip code 7000-7999 is stored in one
    partition.
    2.Hash Partitioning: Apply a hash function to partition key to get partition number. 

    Data replication is the process in which the data is copied at multiple locations 
    (different computers or servers).

    Replication increases scalability of distributed system by allowing multiple parallel 
    reads on the data replicas.

    Replication increases availability of distributed system by allowing operations on
    replicas even when some replicas have failed.

    Types of data replication:
    •Synchronous Replication: All replicas are updated before request is completed.
    •Asynchronous Replication: Request is completed before replicas are updated.
    •Quorum Replication: Request is completed when majority replicas are updated.
        Remaining replicas are updated asynchronously.

         ... replication causes Consistency Issues.

CONSISTENCY
    Consistency in distributed systems talks about how read operations behave
    after a write operation where data is updated on multiple replicas
    ... not to be confused with Consistency in ACID database properties.

    Consistency models:
    •Strong Consistency: When a replicated storage system behaves indistinguishably from a storage system running on a single computer,
        we say it is strongly consistent. In other words, Every read operation always gives 
        values written by last write operation.
    •Weak Consistency: When a replicated storage system allows read operations to return
        values that may not be written by last write operation, it say it is weakly consistent.

        Why not always use strong consistency?
    
CAP THEOREM
    CAP terminology
    •Consistency:A guarantee that every read receives the most recent write or an error.
    
    •Availability: A guarantee that every request receives a (non-error) response,
    without the guarantee that it contains the most recent write
    
    •Partition Tolerance: A guarantee that the system continues to operate despite
    an arbitrary number of messages being dropped (or delayed) by the network between 
    nodes

The CAP theorem implies that in the presence of a network partition,
one has to choose between consistency and availability.

Partition tolerance guarantee must be given by the system as network/hardware failures 
cannot be reduced to zero. 

To build a strongly consistent system, you have to let go of availability. 
This is called CP system.

To build an available system, you have to let go of strong consistency.
This is called AP system.

AP vs CP.. which one is better?